Now lastly I would like to talk about the auto fill an auto fit values.
And again those are going to be the values that will help you to in fact set up your CSX grid without
using media queries.
And again I'm going to repeat myself but we are going to cover that in more detail with more realistic
example with cards when we're gonna of work with our CSX mini project.
But I would want to cover at least the basics of what would be the use for on a file as well as all
of it.
And notice how I kept here the comma enough keeps creating and only.
And you're going to see what that means in Sec.
And maybe maybe you'll let me write only fits.
Something like that.
Now first of all what I would like to do is get rid of what we had here before and you know what I think
I can just delete the great template rose but I'm going to leave the columns.
So let's imagine this scenario where I would want to have let's say a three column layer.
Now the thing is I do have six items OK.
And yes I could also obviously create here six columns.
But what if I don't know how many items I'm going to have.
So let's imagine a very simple scenario where you are getting something back from the database and you
don't know whether that is going to be out on all three items 40 items or 60 items.
So there has to be some kind of better way where I'm not limited to just setting up three columns because
in my case I have six items or maybe have nine or 20 or something like that.
So maybe I would want to align all of them in one row.
Well there's not possible right now currently right.
Because even though I go to the bigger screen size.
Well I'm not going to be able to fit them in one screen because I have three columns and then grid is
smart enough to keep on creating this implicit grid.
Now what would be the solution.
Well you could say OK so we have our repeat function.
So I could run the repeat function and then within a repeat function I could say you know what.
Instead of creating three columns create six columns and then I don't know.
Again we can load one fraction or we can go with two hundred pixels.
It doesn't matter what I'm talking about right now is that.
Once we set this up.
Now I have my one column layout meaning I have one column and it is all sitting within the one row.
But again we need to keep guessing of how many items we're going to have.
So if I'm going to say let's say five.
If I'm gonna be wrong.
Notice my sixth item is gonna be sitting here on the next row reason's very symbol because I only set
up five columns.
So there has to be a way where I could just set up the columns as many items as I have.
And the way we do that is in fact using the order fill or off it and you're going to see in a second
one in fact that means.
So what we could do here is use the audiophile and now let's notice something interesting.
So as the screen size gets smaller we are creating more columns correct because we are there's no way
for us to fit those two hundred pixels in one row.
But as our screen size gets bigger.
In fact we can't fit them in one row.
And this is exactly what we're doing.
And by the time you get to a bigger screen size where you could fit all of them in one row in fact they're
going to behave exactly the same because notice as the screen says get smaller.
Well we just start creating our rows.
But then as we are able to fit them in one row while we just fit them in one row no difference is going
to be once we are able to fit them in one row.
What happens whether we're using the audiophile or all of it.
Now what happens with audiophile as you can see clearly when we're using our developer tools we just
keep on creating columns.
Now we don't see anything here because obviously we don't have the atoms.
So if let's say I'm going to keep on adding the atoms we're going to be able to see these items.
But even if we don't have the atom we still have space here for this particular column.
Now if we're going to use the auto fit.
So instead of auto fill.
So as you see it only fits.
And I'm going to delete the last two items you're going to notice that instead we don't have these extra
columns.
So we are only creating as many columns as we would want meaning as many items we currently have.
So if I have let's say from the database six items coming well I'm just going to set up my six columns.
Now keep in mind though this needs to fit within that screen.
So if I'm gonna say let's say 700 then of course I'm going to have more lines because I can fit only
700 700.
And then I need to go to the next line.
So like I keep saying they only differ once you get to the screen size where you can fit all your items
within one row.
Now why that is important.
Well because what happens is not only we can use a two hundred pixels.
I could also use the min max that we covered in the previous video.
So how is that going to look like.
Well I could say min max correct.
And then I can say my minimum is going to be two hundred pixels but then my max is going to be one fraction
and now noticed something really really interesting and I guess the best way to show you would be set
them side by side.
So first of all let me get rid of this main height for my container.
So I'm just going to set them up like this.
And why don't we write here maybe adding one or fill or Phil or I'm sorry that is out of it.
First one that we're showing is in fact or fit.
And then what I'm going to do is up and paste it like so and we're gonna change this around to or profile
because the best thing is in fact to show you that side by side and my mouse battery's low.
Let me speed the symbol.
But so it's a container number one so I'm just repeating here.
And this guy is going to be with Oroville now what I would like to do is just copy paste everything.
Now I'm going to select container 1.
And now let's change this value from auto fit to Oroville.
And like I said when we cannot fit all of them in one rope because we have two hundred two hundred two
hundred.
There is no difference.
But as our screen size is going to get bigger and bigger and bigger and now known as something.
Now we get to that one particular screen size where we can fit all of them in one row.
And then as my screen size gets bigger and bigger and bigger.
Notice for our our fill it keeps on creating these columns here for the auto fit is just gonna say all
right how many items I have.
I have six.
So my minimum is two hundred.
Correct.
And my max was 1 fraction.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to evenly spread it out mean between my six items because I have
my max as one fraction how are the auto fill is gonna be like Okay so I needed my two hundred pixels.
Can I fit more items.
Well sure I can.
So that's the reason why we keep on creating more items.
Now I can tell you right away that once we get to a C says mini project you're going to see in more
real life scenario when we cover with the cards with a cards column layout what would be the difference
in the real world because probably you're looking like looking at the boxes right now and you're saying
well what is the difference.
I mean I could go with one and I can go with another one.
Yeah.
But just give you kind of a little clue what happens if you have one item.
Are you gonna be happy with one item spanning all across.
Or you would still want to keep let's say some kind of height and width so why don't we delete this
and why don't we just keep with one item and you're going out is that let's say if you have one item
this one still keeps this two hundred pixels.
So this one just gets bigger and bigger.
So if you get let's say one card back from the database would you want to display your item like this.
Or would you want a day display like this.
So there's gonna be a case is where you're going to settle for out of it where you would want let's
say few items here of course.
That is not always gonna be the case where you're going to have a one item but there's going to be cases
where you would want to split them out evenly.
Once you get to that one particular row and then there's gonna be cases where you're gonna be like you
know it doesn't matter that I don't have more items I would still like to keep the structure that I
set up all the way in the beginning.
So that would be the difference between all of it and I feel like I said when we are going to set up
our CSX mini project using cards and grade column loud that's when we're gonna take a look at it in
more realistic detail.